New blog - Comparing Quarkus to Spring Through the Eyes of JHipster (#165)
ippontech/blog-usa: posts/comparing-quarkus-to-spring-through-the-eyes-of-jhipster.md

---
authors:
- Dennis Sharpe
tags:
- Quarkus
- Spring
- JHipster
- Java
date: 2021-01-29T15:52:00.000Z
title: "Comparing Quarkus to Spring Through the Eyes of JHipster"
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ippontech/blog-usa/master/images/2021/01/quarkus-main.png
---
# Approach

> According to the website, [Quarkus](https://quarkus.io/) is “A Kubernetes Native Java stack tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM, crafted from the best of breed Java libraries and standards.” I wanted to explore the differences between a typical Spring Boot/Data application and a Quarkus application from a code perspective. (as opposed to performance) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the [Quarkus](https://quarkus.io/) product page it is “A Kubernetes Native Java stack tailored for OpenJDK HotSpot and GraalVM, crafted from the best of breed Java libraries and standards.” I wanted to explore the differences between a typical Spring Boot/Data application and a Quarkus application through a code comparison.
```

# Generate an Application

> Since JHipster generates an application that is more real than Hello World, I fired up the Quarkus JHipster blueprint. I would like to thank this [post](https://medium.com/quarkify/generate-quarkus-project-with-jhipster-bff4edecb815) for providing step-by-step instructions on how to install the Quarkus blueprint and generate an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since JHipster generates an actual runnable application out of the box, I fired up the Quarkus JHipster blueprint. I would like to thank this [post](https://medium.com/quarkify/generate-quarkus-project-with-jhipster-bff4edecb815) for providing step-by-step instructions on how to install the Quarkus blueprint and generate an application.
```

// create a query for all living persons
PanacheQuery<Person> livingPersons = Person.find("status", Status.Alive);

// make it use pages of 25 entries at a time
livingPersons.page(Page.ofSize(25));

// get the first page
List<Person> firstPage = livingPersons.list();

// get the second page
List<Person> secondPage = livingPersons.nextPage().list();
```

## REST Resources (Controllers)
The REST resources are very similar between the two frameworks. The differences are basically syntactical and use about the same amount of code.

This is an example class declaration:
### Spring Data
```java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/api")
public class AccountResource
```
### Quarkus
```java
@Path("/api")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@Consumes(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
@RequestScoped
public class AccountResource
```

The method declarations are similar as well:
### Spring Data
```java
@PostMapping("/register")
@ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.CREATED)
public void registerAccount(@Valid @RequestBody ManagedUserVM managedUserVM)
```
### Quarkus
```java
@POST
@Path("/register")
@PermitAll
public CompletionStage<Response> registerAccount(@Valid ManagedUserVM managedUserVM)
```

# Conclusion

> It is clear that Spring is the more mature platform and has had many more years to provide some of the niceties that developers have grown used to having. More code is definitely required to use Quarkus at this point. There are plenty of resources online that talk about performance gains from using Quarkus so that very well could drive the decision to try it out. Based on this introductory analysis, the learning curve does not look too steep for Quarkus. I think the next step could be to investigate how Quarkus handles security and other details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is clear that Spring is the more mature platform and has had many more years to provide some of the ergonomics that developers have grown used to having. More code is definitely required to use Quarkus at this point. There are plenty of resources online that talk about performance gains from using Quarkus so that very well could drive the decision to try it out. Based on this introductory analysis, the learning curve does not look too steep for Quarkus. A future blog post will investigate how Quarkus handles security and other developer concerns.
```
